# The Federation of Man

**Humanity has long since expanded across the milky way. the 105,000-lightyear width of the galaxy was traversed in a record 100 years with the latest warp drive technology.  The nearly 10 million light years between galaxies is an entirely different magnitude of scientific endeavor, we don’t expect our probs to power back on for another eight thousand years.  Sadly, even with the whole of our galaxy to draw from, the [Fermi Paradox]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermi_paradox) has yet to be solved.  This has contributed to the galaxies dominate religion believing that humanity was in fact created by a god beyond this existence as the sole intelligence of this universe.  You and your team know this is not the case.  30 years ago the Federation of Man,  a minor power in the galactic community located in the [Scutum-Centarus Arm]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scutum%E2%80%93Centaurus_Arm), discovered an artifact.  Virtually undetectable by ever sensor available, the technology is clearly not man made. Out of fear the galactic council would destroy the relic should it be reported to them, the federation of man has studied the device in secret since its discovery.  The scientists believe the device to be some sort of portal and when we made the discovery there was a combination entered into the device as if prompting the finders to connect to this destination.  The plan is simple, the scientists will overload a reactor core at the same moment the device is powered on, hopefully masking any energy signature the device creates for long enough for your team to go through the portal.  In exactly 5 years 3 months 12 days they will reopen the gate for 10 minutes for you to return.  Additionally, the Federation has… procured a terabyte of [quantum entangled](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_entanglement) storage.  This is incredibly rare and incredibly fragile, if your team is unable to make the return window this one-use device is the only way you will be able to report back your findings. Once your team has reported back the Federation will examine the findings and choose the next course of action.**

I’m envisioning this first mission taking place on a sort of manufactured library world in deep space, it could act as a sort of tutorial for game mechanics as well as rewarding the players with information about other galaxies and questlines they could choose to explore. Or it could be very large, allowing for multiple visits to discover all the library’s secrets. Or it could even be 7th continent levels of massive and provide the majority of the game’s gameplay.  

I like the idea of having two levels of success, the first where the team is able to make the hard time deadline that is  the portal’s reopening which they can use to report back all of their findings, and the second being the case where they decide that the mission they are performing is too important to stop half way done, and push to the end missing the reopening window but are able to send back some of the results of their mission before their supplies run out and they perish in the unknown galaxy.
